I'm going to assume you've watched GFC's RNG manipulation tutorial using the
Python scripts; if not, go to https://youtu.be/DnSmCXphfeA and watch it. I'm
also going to assume you understand everything he says in it. You'll want to be
able to use the script since it does some things this program doesn't take care
of.

Once you open the program you'll see three tabs. I'll go over each of them in
turn. The three parts are completely independent and you only need to read the
sections for the parts you're interested in.

Easy mode finder
================

This allows you to find duels where the AI doesn't play certain cards in the
first few turns. The script is better for finding this information and you
should probably just skip this section.

You pick a duelist, a range of seeds to look in, cards you don't want them to
play, and a number of turns they must not play them. The range of seeds can be
at most 10000 long at a time. So say you want to look for easy Seto 3rd duels
from seeds 200 to 8000. You pick Seto 3rd as the opponent, 200 as the starting
seed, and 7801 for the number of seeds. Then you untick the cards you do not
want him to play, and beneath that specify for how many turns he must not play
them. Then you click 'Find easy modes'.

In the 'Easy modes' column you get a list of seeds matching your conditions.
If there are no matches, the 'Enemy plays' box will say 'No decks found'. You
can then click on a matching seed in 'Easy modes', and see what the AI will play
throughout the duel, assuming you never let them fuse or play magics until they
run out of monsters.

NOTES: Once it gets to the magics, the list of enemy plays can become imperfect.
Also if you are duelling one of the low mages or Neku and the field is not of
their type, they might change it back in contradiction to the prediction. The
script has this flaw too. Finally, this part doesn't have Duel Master K as an
option.

Manip finder
============

This is the part most people will want. It is more flexible at finding drops
than the script, and makes manipping SA Tec drops much easier. The difference
with the script is that the script method specifies the desired duel and then
looks for a seed to match, whereas this takes a given seed and tries to make it
work. The script approach is in my view easier and more useful for a casual
wanting to get SA Pow or BCD drops, but speedrunners and people wanting to manip
SA Tec drops will find this useful.

You will want to find a good seed to try getting your chosen drop on and how to
draw the cards you want using the script and the method shown by GFC in his
video. Once you have that, enter the appropriate duelist, rank, desired drop,
and starting seed. Leave 'From duel start?' ticked by default. What it does is
take into account the RNG changes for deck shuffling and AI deck generation at
the start of a duel. However, if you want to do something the program doesn't
have an option for (like Raigeki), then you can play the duel up to then, find
the seed with an emu like BizHawk, then enter that in and route out the duel
from that point onwards.

Now you need to specify what happens in a duel that affects the RNG. The events
available to you are on the left just below the 'From duel start?' checkbox.
When you click on one of these buttons, you'll see a line get added to the
'Choices' column. You can click on what's in there to change options for
everything that happens. You can also click on one and then press the Delete
button to remove it.

The options for an event will appear in the Options box. Hopefully they're
self-explanatory enough. One note is anything that asks about if an event is
needed is asking if you must do it or if you can choose to do it or not, e.g.,
activating a field spell when you've used enough to get an A Tec. It is also
useful to know that the option to set a battle to an AI battle stops the
program from trying to use a 3d battle there. This can be helpful if you want
to try and swap a quick 3d battle and a non-3d battle for instance (something
that doesn't always work simply).

Once your events and options are all set up you click 'Find manip' and in the
'Fastest manip' box the program will tell you the fastest way to play a duel
that gives you the desired drop. There may not be a possible way to play a duel
given the options you've provided, in which case it will instead say 'No manip
found'.

One note here, it may ask you to do a 'spawn 3d battle'. This means that you
start a 3d battle, but instead of quitting immediately you quit when the circles
appear before your monster appears. The timing window is massive for this, you
have until the actual attack animation starts.

The program will also say what seed the duel ends on. This can be useful if
you want to set up a chain where you manip for multiple duels in a row. This is
only really useful if you're routing for a speedrun. If you're just playing
casually, you can ignore it.

The last thing on this tab is the two boxes at the bottom right, 'Seed index'
and 'Seed value'. If you're not going to change or look at the seed in memory at
all, you can skip down to NOTES and ignore this bit.

The actual value of the seed in memory doesn't go up 0, 1, 2, etc., it jumps
around seemingly random numbers. Then we just call the initial seed seed/frame
0, the next one seed/frame 1, and so on. The purpose of these two boxes is to
allow you to convert between these representations. Seed index means the simpler
values going 0, 1, 2, etc., while seed value means the true seed value. Type in
one of the boxes and the correct number for the other box will appear
automatically. Note the seed index box expects a base 10 number while the seed
value box expects base 16.

NOTES: This all fails if the AI is allowed to make random decisions. It's easy
to avoid that by always playing monsters face-up, playing a monster turn 1, and
then never giving up field control (so never letting them fuse or use magics).
If your opponent is a low mage or Neku and they change the field to their
desired one, then it's okay since this is not a random decision. To specify all
the AI's random decisions here would take too long, but if you follow the above
then you'll avoid them 99.9% of the time.

Also, the only magics this handles are field spells, equips, and traps. There is
(at least currently) no way for this program to handle Dark Hole, Raigeki,
Spellbinding Circle, etc.

Lastly, if you're not on English then a small modification needs to be made.
This is also true of the script. There is a video by GFC on how to fix this
for the script at https://youtu.be/hVvsBRAwdF8 where you slightly modify the
AnimationDatabase.db file. This program also uses a copy of that file, and the
same fix will work here.

Starter deck search
===================

This lets you search through the starter decks. Mainly useful for routing
speedruns.

Pick a starting seed and number of seeds (up to 50000) just like using the
script, a minimum number of dragons and thunders, and what magics you want the
deck to have. The magics can be left blank if you don't care about them. If you
want the deck to have specific cards in it beyond the magics, you can tick them
in the 'Other required cards' box below. Then click 'Find decks' and the list of
seeds giving decks you want appears.

If there are no matches, the 'Deck listing' box will say 'No decks found'.
Otherwise you can click on specific seeds in the 'Valid decks' box and then the
cards in that deck will appear.
